Travelling to US
Email This
BlogThis!
Share to Twitter
Share to Facebook
Share to Pinterest

This is some useful info while traveling. All of it is pretty straightforward. 

Carry with you in your carry-on bag with you:
- pen
- student id
- a few dollars (say around 1000) and rupees
- of course passport, tickets, phone, phone charger
- laptop
- a light sweater (sometimes it gets cold in the airplane)
- printout of your ticket / itinerary details
- important phone numbers and addresses

Indian airport:

Take a printout of your ticket confirmation to the airport.

First you go to your airline counter, show them your passport and check in. They will give you two boarding passes -- one for the flight from your Stopover airport to Destination (which you should keep inside your carry-on bag) and one for the flight from India to stopover airport. The boarding pass will have which gate the flight is leaving from. May be the second flight will not yet have the boarding pass because the gates sometimes change for flights.

They will ask you how many suitcases you are checking in. Then they will ask you to put your suitcases one by one on the belt close to them so as to check their weight. The maximum weight per suitcase allowed is 23 kg (50 lbs). Make sure to not exceed even half a kg when packing. If any suitcase is overweight, they will charge you extra per suitcase. If that happens, you can try to adjust some stuff (take out somethings from the suitcase and put them into your carry on bag) but it is a hassle, so best to avoid it.

At the airline counter, they will give you a small receipt for the two suitcases your are checking in. Usually they stick it to your boarding pass receipt so you can just keep it safely inside your bag. The suitcases are checked all the way to your final destination. You won't need the receipts at all unless your suitcases don't arrive there. In that case you will have to show those receipts.

They will also give you a luggage tag for each of your carry on bags. It is important that you tie one tag to each carry on bag. These tags will be stamped by security checks and they will check those before boarding the plane.

Then, you will need to proceed to immigration counter. First fill an immigration departure card form which you will need to fill from your passport . Keep a pen handy in your carry on bag. Then proceed to immigration. There might be separate desks for people with Indian passports. They will check your passport, visa etc. Might ask you questions about why you are going and what you do in India.

After immigration, you go through security check. You will most likely have to take out the laptop from your bag. Sometimes there are many security check lines depending on your gate number. The security guys will stamp your luggage tags. Make sure you have luggage tags before entering the security check line and that they are stamped after the security check is over. Remember that you can not carry water through security check.

Then you just go to the gate and wait for boarding. There are restrooms and sandwich shops there. You have free wifi. Boarding is typically announced 30-60 minutes before departure time. They will typically board by seat number, starting with first class or with families with babies.

Inside the airplane, put your luggage in the overhead bin and relax. Take some sleep. You can always ask the crew for things like water/blankets etc. Also you can watch movies:)

Stopover airport:

Take all your carry on bags and get down.You can hang around or sit down anywhere. You can check the TV monitors (look for Departure not Arrivals) to look at which gate number your next flight will go through.

The airport has free wifi. Your phone should be able to connect so you can do whatsapp with India. To call, the easiest is to use a credit card and a payphone at the airport. Or you can try downloading skype on your phone so that with free wifi you can make a call. Try it at home first and make a test call. It costs 1.5c/min to call phones from India and 2.2c/min to US. The country code for India is +91 and for US is +1. Of course skype-to-skype is free to make a call too.

You will probably have to go through security again before you board the next flight. Flights to US are security checked many times. Check the TV monitor for your gate number based on your flight number or flight destination. Go to your gate approximately 1 hour before the departure time. The TV monitors also have the current time in local time.

In case of any problem or question, often the airlines or airport have information desks. Also, there are maps which you can look at to find them or the gate location. Sometimes, then airport staff wants to take survey or feedback. Just politely say "no, thank you, i have to go".

Settle down in your seat.Enjoy some movies and try to get some more sleep and enjoy the food. Drink plenty of water/juice etc.

In the plane, you will have to fill immigration and customs form. There is a separate form for green card holders/citizens (also called permanent residents) and for students (also called non-residents) like yourself. It will ask you your passport info and if you are bringing any food or raw fruits or vegetables etc. Say NO to that. It will ask you to fill the dollar amount of any stuff you are carrying.Remember in US forms, you have to generally fill dates in mm/dd/yyyy i.e., month first format, so 24 August is 08/24/2015.

Destination Airport
After you get down, you will have to go through immigration. There are generally separate lines for non-residents and for US citizens. The officer there will look at your passport, visa, and might ask you some simple questions like where are you going to stay, what do you do in India, which university are you going to, etc. The officer will take your photo and take our thumbprints. That is just regular procedure. Then collect your passport from him and proceed to baggage claim. He will take the form and return a small part of the form to you to give to customs.

Get a cart and look for your suitcases on the baggage claim belt. Put them on the cart. Walk to the "EXIT" or "Customs" sign. Just give that small part of the customs/immigration form to the officer there and walk right past. Act confident and casual, not nervous. If they ask whether you have any food or pickles or sweets, just say no. They might point you to the line where they take Xray of your suitcases. Purely chance/luck whether they do that or not. If they do, don't argue with them just go there and get your luggage checked. If they xray the suitcases, they will ask you to throw away the food, which you will have to do... (no arguing will help). If not, just hand them the form and continue walking.

If you don't find your suitcases, go to missing baggage area and show them your checkin-baggage receipts that were given to you at the Indian airport.
Posted by Aashna Garg at 7:58 AM No comments:  
August 23, 2015
Worried about finances?
Email This
BlogThis!
Share to Twitter
Share to Facebook
Share to Pinterest

The cost of graduate studies abroad is exorbitantly high, which can present a dilemma for many students. The average expenses of a university for a year is around $77,000 which includes tution, housing rent, medical insurance, etc. Fortunately, there are many opportunities available:

Teaching and Research Assistantships
Finding RA/TA for students is actually not difficult as one might think initially. Once you get there you'll find various opportunities in the form of Research Assistantships or Teaching Assistantships (25% or 50%). Assistantships cover your whole tuition fee and also pay you a stipend which is enough to cover housing and other expenses. You should apply for each of them separately, sometimes the prof might have an interview to test if you have the required skills for the RA. Before reaching the university you needn't really do much work, but your seniors can point you to a few professors who do give out RA's. You can check out their work and maybe get familiar with what they might look for in a candidate. Even if you do not manage to received funding right from the first quarter, do not get discouraged because from the 2nd quarter most masters students manage to bag a TA/RA.

Hourly jobs
Hourly pay depends on the professor, it varies from $15-30 per hour.You need to show how many hours you have spent on your job. As long as your prof agrees that your hours is justified it is good. But a 50% RA/TA will obviously pay you better as it will cover your tuition fee.

Employer sponsorship
If you’re starting your studies after a period of work, you may be able to persuade your employer to sponsor your studies. Most companies are supportive of staff training and development, and may even have a budget set aside for the personal and professional development (PPD) of their employees.Employers will be more receptive to your request if you show your aim is to improve your ability in the workplace, advance your career prospects, and/or aid your long-term development within the company, rather than simply indulging your own academic or personal interests. If you do use this route, you may need to sign an agreement which will tie you to the company for a specified period after graduation (usually one to two years). This will further explain you the process.

Scholarships and Travel Grants
Many Indian trusts and organisations like Ratan Tata and Dorabji Trust for partial travel grant, Fullbright scholarship, Godrej Foundation, JN Tata Endowment for higher education, K.C. Mahindra Education Trust and others. You need to apply for them well in time (start tracking their deadlines from January).

Education Loan
If you don't end up in getting any kind of funding, no need to worry, education loan won't keep you away from pursuing your studies. Education loans for studying abroad are provided by almost all the major banks in India. The education loan scheme covers all type of courses including professional courses in schools and colleges in India and abroad.
The salient features of this scheme are:
The scheme envisages loans up to Rs. 15 lacs for studies abroad.
For loans up to Rs. 4 lacs no collateral or margin is required and the interest rate is not to exceed the Prime Lending Rates (PLR). For loans above Rs. 4 lacs the interest rate will not exceed PLR plus 1 percent.
The loans are to be repaid over a period of 5 to 7 years with provision of grace period of one year after completion of studies.
However, getting education loan from US itself is available at lower rates of interest, provided that you have a guarantor there.
