 Recognize your weakness
Most of the GRE takers are engineers like me. For us, Quant is never an issue, it's the Verbal section which is the only challenge.

Improve your verbal skills!
It is very important for students to know that GRE is all about how well you comprehend the question in right amount of time. You cannot bring a significant improvement in your Verbal score by doing more books or questions. You should instead focus on reading articles on topics such as physical sciences, biological sciences, social sciences, business, arts and humanities and everyday topics, both academic and nonacademic. When it comes to improving your reading ability and vocabulary, there is no shortcut. To be a better reader, you have to read and you have to read often. So often we hear from students who have a month left before their test and are looking for quick ways to improve their Verbal score. Sadly, there is not a whole lot that can be done in a month besides rote memorization, which we know is not very effective. Only sustained reading over a long period of time will bring the gains that students need for success. You should allocate at least six months to improving their reading. Read actively, read often, read material that mimics that of the test, and read about subjects that are unfamiliar and uncomfortable. Some good reading sources are New York Times, The Economic times, The Hindu, Reader's Digest.

Don't start Googling "Best books for GRE preparation" rightaway!
There are numerous books available online which guarantee you to prepare the best for your GRE. To name some - Barron's, Kaplan, Manhattan, Princeton, ETS Official guide and the list goes on and on. I have read almost every book and believe me, the questions in your actual GRE will be not even close to what's given in these books. What I would suggest is, learn how to attempt each kind of question from the ETS official guide as well as Magoosh strategy videos (torrents are available) and practice each section from the Manhattan 5lb series. That's it.

Stop memorizing words!
When I started my GRE preparation, I heard it from a friend "Bas 3000 words yaad karlo, GRE ho jaega!". Almost all coaching institutes, websites and books convince you to memorize 3000 or 5000 tough words and guarantee you a score of 330 based on that. Absolute nonsense! GRE hardly has any difficult words. Don't sit in front of long words list for hours and waste your time. The best way is to try remembering them as you come across with them. Only the words you see often in your questions or tests are the ones which come in your GRE. So, don't worry about this at all!

The time constraint
This is the most essential part of your GRE preparation. Right from the beginning of your preparation, you should focus on time management. Whether you are practicing a set of 10 questions or giving a full length test or reading an article in the newspaper - do it with time. Always have your stopwatch in hand and try improving each time.

Practice, practice and practice!
Right from the initial days of your preparation, I would suggest you to practice timed full length tests very often. Take them in a peaceful environment as if giving the actual one. Don't get scared with the scores you get in them, there's a huge difference between the actual scores. These tests are important for you to build your stamina to sit in front of the computer for 3.5 hours and attempt the questions on time. 


The Analytical Writing section
Some students have this fear of the writing section. This is the easiest section of your GRE, you don't need to specially prepare for it. But do attempt this section in your full length mock tests. This section is only to drain all your energy at the beginning of the test.

Is Quant that easy?
Not at all. Students easily score 170 in Quant in their full length mock tests, but in the actual test, maths is tough! This fact is known by a very few people, but people tend to lose marks in Quant. So, don't rely on books and mock tests for the difficulty level of Quant. Practice tougher questions than you see.
